Finding clients through online paid ads.
This gets a little bit into marketing your freelance business but I wanted to talk about the options
when it comes to paying for exposure through boosted post or paid online ads sometimes to get a business
started.
There needs to be a little bit of financial investment in terms of marketing but not everyone will need
to pay for ads.
Some of the other free networking and finding client activities mentioned in this course can land you
some of those first few vital clients.
For those who struggle even after trying out all the free avenues it might be time to consider a small
investment and test out some paid ads to see how they convert.
There are several types of online paid ads.
First off there are display ads which can be purchased from online news Web sites and other local Web
sites for a monthly fee.
I find these more effective for larger companies and less so for freelancers.
But I prefer doing display ads in local networks in your nearby town as display ads for national or
international Web sites can be just too costly for a new freelancer next there are paid Facebook ads.
You can set up a Facebook ad account and just a few minutes and craft your first AD.
You can do either a Facebook post ad which shows up and your targeted users news feed or you can do
boosted posts which expose one of your normal Facebook business page posts to a broader target audience
Facebook change their search algorithm worked.
Back in 2016 the favor paid and boosted business post over organic posts so it's hard to grow organically
on Facebook now without trying to bring in users through other sources as a freelance owner and small
business owner.
I prefer boosted posts because they can feel more natural for a freelance business.
The key to creating a great Facebook boosted post are paid ad is to define your target audience well
we've already worked on that a bit earlier in the class and there is a good reason why it's good to
really help you here.
I would start off with a very small budget for your first boosted poster ad so you can see if small
changes in your campaign whether it be the image you use the headline are tweaking your audience has
any changes in the conversions you get are the new clients in your case.
Rarely you can create the perfect ad right away.
This is because it takes a few ads running first to find out which ones are more effective as you're
still getting to know your target audience.
Instagram is another option for boosting your post.
First of all you'll need to convert your Instagram account into a business profile by going to the account
settings and ticking the switchover to business profile option.
Once that's complete you'll notice a new promote buttons on all of your posted posts.
Once you sign up for a business account which is totally free by the way and I recommend everybody do
it even if you don't even run ads because it'll give you access to more stats about each post including
profile visits your reach where each view came from like if views came from hashtags home page or from
your followers.
This extra detailed information about each post is so vital in helping you define your target audience
but also helps you find out what content tends to lead to a bigger response from your following I find
the use of video driven posts much more engaging with my audience than a single photo post.
I also found that posting helpful guides for my target audience worked better than promotional style
posts where I show off my work.
For example if you're a web developer you can do a series of posts that gives advice to small business
owners about proper web site layout and structure.
Now that we talked about ways to find clients online let's talk about one of my personal favorite ways
to find clients and how I found my first few clients and that's where and how to find them off line.